Example of ResNet50-TRT with DALI backend (#29)
triton-inference-server/dali_backend: docs/examples/resnet50_trt/README.md

# Triton Inference Server with DALI backend

This repo is an example of [DALI (Data Loading Library) backend](https://github.com/NVIDIA/DALI) for image classification on [Triton Inference server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server).

ResNet50 model optimized by [TensorRT](https://developer.nvidia.com/tensorrt) is used for image classification. 

#### Dependencies

* Export ONNX and build TensorRT
  * nvcr.io/nvidia/pytorch:20.12-py3
* Triton Inference Server for DALI backend
  * nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:20.12-py3
  * https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend

* Client
  * nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:20.10-py3-clients

#### Setting up the ONNX-TensorRT and DALI backend ENV

```
$git clone https://gitlab-master.nvidia.com/ghong/triton_dali
$cd triton_dali

> $git clone https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$git clone https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend --recursive
```

$cd dali_backend
$docker build -t triton_dali_backend -f Dockerfile .
$cd ..
```

####  Build TensorRT via ONNX

##### 1.  Converting PyTorch Model to ONNX-model 

Run `onnx_exporter.py` for conversion using PyTorch model to ONNX model. In this case, ResNet50 model is converted to ONNX format. `width` and `height` dims are fixed at 224 but dynamic axes arguments for dynamic batch is used. 

```
$docker run -it --gpus=all -v $(pwd):/workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/pytorch:20.12-py3 bash
$python onnx_exporter.py --save model.onnx
```

##### 2. Building ONNX-model to TensorRT engine

Set the arguments for enabling fp16 precision `--fp16` and for dynamic shapes using a profile `--minShapes`, `--optShapes`, and `maxShapes` with `--explicitBatch`

```python

> $trtexec --onnx=model.onnx --saveEngine=./model_repository/resnet50_trt/1/model.plan --explicitBatch --minShapes=input:1x3x224x224 --optShapes=input:1x3x224x224 --maxShapes=input:256x3x224x224 --fp16

Reviewer: This command ends with error because model_repository/resnet50_trt/__1__ directory is lacking.

Author: Add commands for creating directories. [README.md](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend/pull/35/commits/e64638fc5015b57260cd114e6723c81fdb493744#diff-3272a2f918db29f27589316303368b47f9187f0910d33ec7fb7d6f18868ceea2R42)

```

If had a dedicated hardware decoder, the hardware is available. Set the preprocessing pipeline  `resize` and `normalize` using `dali.pipeline.Pipeline` and serialize pipeline using `Pipeline.serialize`

````python
pipe = dali.pipeline.Pipeline(batch_size=256, num_threads=4, device_id=0)
with pipe:
    images = dali.fn.external_source(device="cpu", name="DALI_INPUT_0")
    images = dali.fn.image_decoder(images, device="mixed", output_type=types.RGB)
    images = dali.fn.resize(images, resize_x=224, resize_y=224)
    images = dali.fn.crop_mirror_normalize(images,
                                           dtype=types.FLOAT,
                                           output_layout="CHW",
                                           crop=(224, 224),
                                           mean=[0.485 * 255, 0.456 * 255, 0.406 * 255],
                                           std=[0.229 * 255, 0.224 * 255, 0.225 * 255])

    pipe.set_outputs(images)
    pipe.serialize(filename=args.save)
````

#### Run Triton Inference Server

![](./images/ensemble.PNG)

```bash
model_repository
├── dali
│   ├── 1
│   │   └── model.dali
│   └── config.pbtxt
├── ensemble_dali_resnet50

> │   ├── 1

Reviewer: This directory is also lacking

Author: update README.md

Author: Add commands for creating directories. [README.md](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend/pull/35/commits/e64638fc5015b57260cd114e6723c81fdb493744#diff-3272a2f918db29f27589316303368b47f9187f0910d33ec7fb7d6f18868ceea2R42)

# Triton Inference Server with DALI backend

> This repo is an example of [DALI (Data Loading Library) backend](https://github.com/NVIDIA/DALI) for image classification on [Triton Inference server](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/server).

Reviewer 2: Done

> ResNet50 model optimized by [TensorRT](https://developer.nvidia.com/tensorrt) is used for image classification. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a model ResNet50 optimized by [TensorRT](https://developer.nvidia.com/tensorrt) is used. 
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> #### Dependencies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Prerequisite 
```

* Export ONNX and build TensorRT
  * `nvcr.io/nvidia/pytorch:20.12-py3`

> * Triton Inference Server for DALI backend

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Triton Inference Server with DALI backend
```

  * `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:20.12-py3`

>   * `https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend`

Reviewer 3: Maybe mention that this repo is just for the reference, and tritonserver docker image has DALI backend embedded.

Reviewer 2: Done

* Client
  * `nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:20.10-py3-client`

> ## Setting up the ONNX-TensorRT DALI

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Setting up the example
```

The quickest way to set up this example is to run the setup script:

```
cd dali_backend/docs/examples/resnet50_trt
sh setup_resnet50_trt_example.sh
```

Below we add step-by-step guide, how to set up and run this example.
If you used the `setup_resnet50_trt_example.sh` script, please skip to
[Run Triton Inference Server](#run-triton-inference-server) section.

> ### Step-by-step guide

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Step-by-step guide (optional)
```

> Prepare directory structure for the model repository.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is a step-by-step guide.
If you used the `setup_resnet50_trt_example.sh` script, please skip to
[Run Triton Inference Server](#run-triton-inference-server) section.

Prepare directory structure for the model repository.
```

```
mkdir -p model_repository/dali/1
mkdir -p model_repository/ensemble_dali_resnet50/1
mkdir -p model_repository/resnet50_trt/1
```

####  Build TensorRT via ONNX

##### 1.  Converting PyTorch Model to ONNX-model 

> Run `onnx_exporter.py` for conversion using PyTorch model to ONNX model. In this case, ResNet50 model is converted to ONNX format. `width` and `height` dims are fixed at 224 but dynamic axes arguments for dynamic batch is used. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run `onnx_exporter.py` to convert ResNet50 PyTorch model to ONNX format. `width` and `height` dims are fixed at 224 but dynamic axes arguments for dynamic batch are used. 
```

```
docker run -it --gpus=all -v $(pwd):/workspace nvcr.io/nvidia/pytorch:20.12-py3 bash
python onnx_exporter.py --save model.onnx
```

##### 2. Building ONNX-model to TensorRT engine

> Set the arguments for enabling fp16 precision `--fp16` and for dynamic shapes using a profile `--minShapes`, `--optShapes`, and `maxShapes` with `--explicitBatch`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Set the arguments for enabling fp16 precision `--fp16`. To enable dynamic shapes use `--minShapes`, `--optShapes`, and `maxShapes` with `--explicitBatch`
```

```python

> trtexec --onnx=model.onnx --saveEngine=./model_repository/resnet50_trt/1/model.plan --explicitBatch --minShapes=input:1x3x224x224 --optShapes=input:1x3x224x224 --maxShapes=input:256x3x224x224 --fp16

Reviewer 2: Done

```

##### 3. Serialize DALI pipeline 

Run `serialize_dali_pipeline.py` for generating  DALI pipeline. 

```

> python serialize_dali_pipeline.py --save ./model_repository/dali/1/model.dali

Reviewer 2: Done

```

> If had a dedicated hardware decoder, the hardware is available. Set the preprocessing pipeline  `resize` and `normalize` using `dali.pipeline.Pipeline` and serialize pipeline using `Pipeline.serialize`

Reviewer 3: ?

Reviewer 2: I decided to get rid of the snippet, that shows DALI pipeline. This code is shown in repo and easily found. I'll add short info to this paragraph

````python
pipe = dali.pipeline.Pipeline(batch_size=256, num_threads=4, device_id=0)
with pipe:
    images = dali.fn.external_source(device="cpu", name="DALI_INPUT_0")
    images = dali.fn.image_decoder(images, device="mixed", output_type=types.RGB)
    images = dali.fn.resize(images, resize_x=224, resize_y=224)
    images = dali.fn.crop_mirror_normalize(images,
                                           dtype=types.FLOAT,
                                           output_layout="CHW",
                                           crop=(224, 224),
                                           mean=[0.485 * 255, 0.456 * 255, 0.406 * 255],
                                           std=[0.229 * 255, 0.224 * 255, 0.225 * 255])

    pipe.set_outputs(images)
    pipe.serialize(filename=args.save)
````

## Run Triton Inference Server

![](./images/ensemble.PNG)

```bash
model_repository
├── dali
│   ├── 1
│   │   └── model.dali
│   └── config.pbtxt
├── ensemble_dali_resnet50
│   ├── 1
│   └── config.pbtxt
└── resnet50_trt
    ├── 1
    │   └── model.plan
    ├── config.pbtxt
    └── labels.txt
```

> For preprocessing using DALI 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable DALI backend preprocessing
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: I decided to get rid of the `config.pbtxt` snippets, since it's all in the repo. I only retained the layout of model repo, cause it's something that is generated during the setup.

name: "dali"
backend: "dali"
max_batch_size: 256
input [
{
    name: "DALI_INPUT_0"
    data_type: TYPE_UINT8
    dims: [ -1 ]
}
]
 
output [
{
    name: "DALI_OUTPUT_0"
    data_type: TYPE_FP32
    dims: [ 3, 224, 224 ]
}
]
```

> For ResNet50 model using TensorRT,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2) ResNet50 model (TensorRT optimized) configuration,
```

```
name: "resnet50_trt"
platform: "tensorrt_plan"
max_batch_size: 256
input [
{
    name: "input"
    data_type: TYPE_FP32
    dims: [ 3, -1, -1 ]
    
}
]
output[
{
    name: "output"
    data_type: TYPE_FP32
    dims: [ 1000 ]
    label_filename: "labels.txt"
}
]

```

For ensemble model for image classification pipeline, 

```
name: "ensemble_dali_resnet50"
platform: "ensemble"
max_batch_size: 256
input [
  {
    name: "INPUT"
    data_type: TYPE_UINT8
    dims: [ -1 ]
  }
]
output [
  {
    name: "OUTPUT"
    data_type: TYPE_FP32
    dims: [ 1000 ]
  }
]
ensemble_scheduling {
  step [
    {
      model_name: "dali"
      model_version: -1
      input_map {
        key: "DALI_INPUT_0"
        value: "INPUT"
      }
      output_map {
        key: "DALI_OUTPUT_0"
        value: "preprocessed_image"
      }
    },
    {
      model_name: "resnet50_trt"
      model_version: -1
      input_map {
        key: "input"
        value: "preprocessed_image"
      }
      output_map {
        key: "output"
        value: "OUTPUT"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> Run Triton inference server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4) Run Triton inference server
```

```
docker run --gpus=all --rm -p8000:8000 -p8001:8001 -p8002:8002 -v$(pwd):/workspace/ -v/$(pwd)/model_repository:/models nvcr.io/nvidia/tritonserver:20.12-py3 tritonserver --model-repository=/models
```

## Request image classification

Create gRPC client via URL

```python
triton_client = tritongrpcclient.InferenceServerClient(url=args.url, verbose=False)
```

Load raw image from `numpy` and configurate input and output with the name, shape and datatype. 

```
inputs = []
outputs = []
input_name = "INPUT"
output_name = "OUTPUT"
image_data = load_image(args.image)
image_data = np.expand_dims(image_data, axis=0)

inputs.append(tritongrpcclient.InferInput(input_name, image_data.shape, "UINT8"))
outputs.append(tritongrpcclient.InferRequestedOutput(output_name))

inputs[0].set_data_from_numpy(image_data)
```

> Request inference and respond the results

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Request inference and obtain the results
```
